---
layout: post
title: "Climbing"
date: 2012-11-24 02:28
categories:
 - life
comments: true
published: true
---

I had no idea fingertips could sweat this profusely.

<!-- more -->

Yesterday I went climbing for the first time ever. We were a bunch of people from work, two of whom are certified instructors.

We rented climbing shoes and harnesses and geared up and went through the safety routines. Figure eight knot, rope through the harness, rope through the same knot again, up the wall you go.

My first climb was on the easiest wall, just to get a feel for it -- I stayed mostly to one route but I wasn't above using whatever grips I could get if things felt challenging.

I made it to the top, I think 7 meters up, without much trouble. The hard part from there was getting the courage to let go of the wall and rappel down again. -- you really need to learn to trust your second, who is down on the ground at the other end of your rope. They have a harness themselves, so if you fall they'll make sure it's a slow and controlled descent. They're essentially your counterweight when climbing, sometimes with an extra weight tied to their harness if there's a big weight difference.

I did another 3-4 climbs after that first one, but I'm so completely unused to actually doing that kind of activity with hands and fingers, and the first climb took most of the energy out of my fingers.

I tried a different route on the same wall, but by then my fingers were so tired I couldn't get a good grip and made it about halfway before I had to rappel down.

My fingers started sweating profusely, and even as I'm typing this I feel my hands starting to sweat. At the end of the day I was unsure I could even hold a glass of water without dropping it, so numb and tired did my fingers feel.

It was definitely a fun experience, and I really wouldn't mind trying this again some time. Plenty of pictures were taken; I'll add some to this post when I get them.
