---
layout: post
title: "Marked"
date: 2012-12-23 20:20
categories:
 - writing
 - programming
comments: true
published: true
---

I discovered [Marked][marked] on the App Store and integrated it into my writing pipeline. It's 50% off at this moment, and I recommend it highly.

<!-- more -->

Marked watches a Markdown file of your choosing and renders it when it's modified. That's it, really.

I do all my blog writing in [Sublime Text 2][st2]. My old workflow was to do the writing there while having [Octopress][octopress] running in preview mode to check how it looked. Every time I saved a file, Octopress rebuilt the modified file. I had the local site running and open in the browser, and then I reloaded to check the updates.

It works, but it's a bit clunky. Marked is a great middleman for checking the output from ST2 without having to build HTML files and check them in the browser.

Now I use Marked for the occasional checks while writing instead, and only do one final check in the Octopress preview mode to check that it looks OK before deploying it.

## Sublime Text 2 Integration

Integrating Marked into ST2 is easy. Make a new build system under Tools &rarr; Build System &rarr; New Build System. Paste these JSON settings:

``` json
{
  "cmd": ["open", "-a", "/Applications/Marked.app", "$file"],
  "selector": "text.html.markdown"
}
```

Save it as `Marked.sublime-build` in your `ST2/Packages/User` directory. Now ⌘B on a Markdown file in ST2 will launch Marked with that file.

## Shell Integration

Marked also comes with a simple CLI utility. Link that from the terminal:

    ln -s "/Applications/Marked.app/Contents/Resources/mark" /usr/local/bin/mark

Now you can launch Marked from the terminal with `mark file.md`.

[marked]: http://markedapp.com/
[st2]: http://www.sublimetext.com/
[octopress]: http://octopress.org/
